docs: 1.5 release (#8387)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Components/components-embedding-models.md

---
title: Embedding models
slug: /components-embedding-models
---

import Icon from "@site/src/components/icon";

:::important
In [Langflow version 1.5](/release-notes), the singular **Embedding model** component replaces many provider-specific embedding models components. Any provider-specific embedding model components that weren't incorporated into the singular component were moved to [**Bundles**](/components-bundle-components).
:::

> Embedding model components in Langflow generate text embeddings using the selected Large Language Model (LLM). The core **Embedding model** component supports many LLM providers, models, and use cases. For additional providers and models not supported by the core **Embedding model** component, see [**Bundles**](/components-bundle-components).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Embedding model components in Langflow generate text embeddings using the selected Large Language Model (LLM). The core **Embedding model** component supports many LLM providers, models, and use cases. For additional providers and models not supported by the core **Embedding model** component, see [Bundles](/components-bundle-components).
```

Most use cases can be performed with the **Language Model** and **Embedding Model** components.

> If you want to try additional providers not supported by the new components, the single-provider LLM components of both the **Language Model** and **Embedding Model** types are now found in **Bundles**, and are still available for use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This content is redundant of line 12 and not really needed.

## Use an Embedding Model component in a flow

Create a semantic search system with the **Embedding model** component.

1. Add the **Embedding model** component to your flow.

>    The default model is OpenAI's `text-embedding-3-small`. Based on [OpenAI's recommendations](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings#embedding-models), this model is a good balance of performance and cost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The default model is OpenAI's `text-embedding-3-small`, which is a balanced model, based on [OpenAI's recommendations](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings#embedding-models).
```

Future proofing by avoiding references to cost and performance. Generally describing it as "balanced" is sufficient.

3. Add a [Split text](/components-processing#split-text) component to your flow.
   This component splits your input text into smaller chunks to be processed into embeddings.
4. Add a [Chroma DB](/components-vector-stores#chroma-db) vector store component to your flow.
   This component stores your text embeddings for later retrieval.
5. Connect the **Text Splitter** component's **Chunks** output to the **Chroma DB** component's **Ingest Data** input.
6. Connect the **Embedding model** component's **Embeddings** output to the **Chroma DB** component's **Embeddings** input.

This flow embeds the split text into the local Chroma vector store using the `text-embedding-3-small` model.
Your flow looks like this:

![Embedding to vector store](/img/component-embedding-models.png)

To query the your vector store, include [Chat Input](/components-io#chat-input) and [Chat Output](/components-io#chat-output) components.

7. Connect a [Chat Input](/components-io#chat-input) component to the **Search Query** input of the Chroma DB vector store.
8. Connect a [Chat Output](/components-io#chat-output) component to the **Search Results** port of the Chroma DB vector store.

> Your flow looks like this:

Reviewer: Pls add a more complete description of what the image is showing.
